hmm it's 1 a.m. and after scrolling the
socials you finally hit the sack the
last thing you see as your eyes are
drifting off to sleep
is that cool futuristic art piece
hanging in the hallway you got from some
garage sale years ago wait you left your
bedroom door open big mistake
about half of home fires happen at night
if it ever happens to you while you're
sound asleep a closed door could be a
matter of survival just 40 years ago we
had around 17 minutes to escape a
burning building today we're down to
three minutes and that's in the best
case fire has become faster and we have
the furniture in our homes to blame
nowadays is made of synthetic materials
that burn faster hotter and give off
toxic gases compared to the natural
materials homes used to be filled with a
closed door gives you back the precious
time you need it stops fire from
spreading into your bedroom as fast and
you stay safe for a while the door also
gives you the gift of clean air locked
in the room you can breathe normally
well on the other side everything is
covered in smoke and unbreathable gases
and when a fires burning the temperature
reaches over a thousand degrees
Fahrenheit way more than the surface of
Venus the hottest planet in our solar
system meanwhile your room will stay
below 100 degrees it's still pretty
uncomfortably warm but at least you'll
be able to bear it until you get out
okay so let's rewind this picture you
scroll your socials get up and close the
door and then drift off to sleep
but suddenly your sweet slumber is
ruthlessly interrupted by some horrible
ear-splitting sound no silly it's not me
it takes you a second to realize it's
your smoke alarm and the drowsiness
instantly leaves you the house is on
fire and you need to get out ASAP
because the door can't protect you
forever don't panic and follow these
steps 1 look if there's smoke coming
under the door if there is do not open
the door
you can't escape and your bedroom is now
the safest place in the house to
be if you don't see any smoke coming
from the other side of the door then to
carefully touch the doorknob try it
first with your hand wrapped in some
fabric like a t-shirt so you don't get
burned if it's too hot if it's hot or
warm keep the door closed
it means the fire has reached your only
exit and you have to stay if it feels
all right then try to touch the doorknob
with your bare hand again to warm don't
open it
only if it's cold can you follow the
third step three
carefully open the door but really
really careful if you feel a wave of
heat drop this idea and shut the door
immediately if you couldn't get out use
towels and sheets to cover the cracks
around the door if it's possible wet
them it'll slow down the smoke seeping
into your room call emergency services
open the window and shout that there's a
fire stay near the window so you can
breathe clean air and wait for help
assuming you're not on the first floor
if you're near the ground then well duh
crawl out but remember don't ever open
the window if there's no closed door
between you and the fire if you do you
let in fresh oxygen that will fuel the
flames and they'll travel to you faster
if you were able to open the door since
there's no fire around yet you can go
toward the exit by yourself
just remember to cover your mouth with
some wet piece of fabric then down and
stay low to the ground the smoke and
toxic gases go up so the air is cleaner
closest to the floor leave everything
behind
forget about your laptop family photos
don't take any valuables with you
because it'll slow you down and of
course while leaving don't forget to
shut all the doors behind you too we
already know their super powers right
when you're out call for help and never
come back for anything so remember what
woke you up in the first place
smoke alarms bingo check them once a
month and change the batteries twice a
year you won't smell the fire until it's
already too bad so if the alarm has to
work 24/7 to
you up before it's too late another
equally dire situation being in a car
with the engine in flames the doors and
windows won't budge you're trapped
before you do anything turn the ignition
off you have a life hammer in the -
great it can smash the windows in a
second if not well buy one and for now
take out the headrest and slide one of
its metal prongs down in between the
window pane and the door pull the
headrest towards you and the window will
instantly shatter
crawl out get at least 100 feet away
from the car that's about the distance
between baseball bases and call for help
and remember never ever drive with
random things lying around in your car
store all your car supplies jumper
cables and window scrapers and so on in
the trunk
anything that's lying around and not
fixed down can hit you in an accident
even a pillow turns into a dangerous
object when it's going 60 miles per hour
okay here's another test scenario you're
picking up a friend from the mall and
you two are about to head to the lake
for a little Friday picnic you Park
unlock the doors and just chill and
listen to music while you wait for your
buddy what did you do wrong ah always
lock your car even if you're inside
no not even especially if you're inside
it might not be your friend he'll get in
the car and you won't be able to do
anything about it all kinds of
suspicious characters out there so stay
safe and take care of yourself